Adding Krea spotlight (#10777)
PostHog/posthog.com: contents/spotlight/startup-krea.md

Author: Hey @joethreepwood and @andyvan-ph Working on incorporating your feedback, but may have messed up the file a bit. I'll tag you when I've got it sorted; sorry for any extra noise.

Reviewer: hit me up if you need some help here

Author: Okay, if I've done this right, [the file itself](https://github.com/PostHog/posthog.com/pull/10777/files) should be a version that incorporates all of your suggestions and revisions, including the bigger re-writes I did based on your input.

Reviewer: when you're online later, drop me message and I can show you some tips for doing this in github. should make your workflow a little easier. :)

Diego Rodriguez, cofounder at Krea, senses that startups usually don't need to care about big amounts of data until it’s too late but that way of working may change soon if it didn't do it already.

His advice? If you’re building an AI-first app then you need to be ready for massive surge of data, regardless of virality. Here’s how founders can prepare with a stronger foundation.

## 1. AI-first apps generate more data than you can imagine

Generative AI presents an entirely different paradigm for managing data such as events. “When you track user events on a finance website,” Diego says. “People don't go to a website and spend money a thousand times on a visit. That just doesn't happen. But people do come to Krea and they may make 1,000 images in a single session.”

Diego explains: “Let’s say your product is Canva. How much data is passing through your product? A user creates one artifact: let’s say, a poster. There it is. They’ll create one poster. You don't make many posters per second, or many posters within one minute. You make *A* poster. You work on it, and then you finish and then you save it. But in the world of AI?

> For me, the equivalent of an artifact that the user made it is not a poster — it’s a frame that you make on the [Krea Realtime](https://www.krea.ai/apps/image/realtime) tool.  But the thing is, within one minute you can make a _lot_ of images, right? Yet, each frame is an artifact of a kind — one moment or “event” in terms of product analytics. The person is making images, but suddenly you are not processing few of them in a few seconds; instead, you are processing many frames per second during, say, 20 minutes. We are not talking about percentage differences anymore—it's in the orders of magnitude.”

Reviewer: ```suggestion
"For me, the equivalent of an artifact that the user made it is not a poster — it’s a frame that you make on the [Krea Realtime](https://www.krea.ai/apps/image/realtime) tool.  But the thing is, within one minute you can make a _lot_ of images, right? Yet, each frame is an artifact of a kind — one moment or “event” in terms of product analytics. The person is making images, but suddenly you are not processing few of them in a few seconds; instead, you are processing many frames per second during, say, 20 minutes. We are not talking about percentage differences anymore—it's in the orders of magnitude.”
```

---

> title: How AI startups can deal with massive data, with Diego from Krea.ai

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
title: How Krea analyzes data from its generative AI tool
```

> date: 2025-01-24

Reviewer 2: must remember to update date when you publish

author:
  - kevan-gilbert
showTitle: true
rootpage: /blog
sidebar: Blog
hideAnchor: true
featuredImage: >-
  https://res.cloudinary.com/dmukukwp6/image/upload/413293711_2ad62f5e_8fca_44cf_b73a_0848f9537a56_3e39fca48c.jpg
featuredImageType: full
category: Startups
---
The irony of going viral is that everybody wants it, but nobody’s ready for it. 

There is often such a sudden increase in data usage that servers strain, performance degrades and costs can shoot up for founding teams.

The team at [Krea](https://www.krea.ai/) surfed that wave — when their app went viral in Southeast Asia, hitting 200,000 sign-ups in a single day. Having already [set up PostHog to track events](/product-analytics#installation) for Krea, they were ready in advance for such a surge.

> Diego Rodriguez, cofounder at Krea, senses that startups usually don't need to care about big amounts of data until it’s too late but that way of working may change soon if it didn't do it already.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Diego Rodriguez, co-founder at Krea, senses that startups usually don't need to care about big amounts of data until it’s too late but that way of working may change soon if it didn't do it already.
```

His advice? If you’re building an AI-first app, you’re going to
 need to be ready for massive surge of data, independently of whether virality is in the equation or not. Here’s how founders can prepare with a stronger foundation.

> ## 1. AI-first apps generate more data than you can dream

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## 1. AI-first apps generate more data than you can dream of
```

> Generative AI presents an entirely different paradigm for managing data such as events. “When you track user events on a finance website,” Diego says. “People don't go to a website and spend money a thousand times on a visit. That just doesn't happen. But people do come to Krea and they may make 1,000 images in a single session.”

Reviewer 2: Paradigm sounds a bit business jargony here. We should rewrite to make it clearer. 

```suggestion
Generative AI can require understanding how customers use data on an entirely different scale to other products, says Diego.

“People don't go to a website and spend money a thousand times on a visit. That just doesn't happen. But people do come to Krea and make 1,000 images in a single session.”
```

Diego explains: “Let’s say your product is Canva. How much data is passing through your product? A user creates one artifact: let’s say, a poster. There it is. They’ll create one poster. You don't make many posters per second, or many posters within one minute. You make *A* poster. You work on it, and then you finish and then you save it. But in the world of AI?

> For me, the equivalent of an artifact that the user made it is not a poster — it’s a frame that you make on the [Krea Realtime](https://www.krea.ai/apps/image/realtime) tool.  But the thing is, within one minute you can make a _lot_ of images, right? Yet, each frame is an artifact of a kind — one moment or “event” in terms of product analytics. The person is making images, but suddenly you are not processing few of them in a few seconds; instead, you are processing many frames per second during, say, 20 minutes. We are not talking about percentage differences anymore—it's in the orders of magnitude.”

Reviewer 2: This is a great point, but I'm not sure we're leading it anywhere. It needs a conclusion or lesson at the end. 

E.g.: "Generative AI creates data at an unprecedented scale _so you can't use standard analytics tools which don't cater to the scale of AI_" or "Generative AI creates data at an unprecedented scale _so you need to be smart about what you track and here's how we instrumented our data capture_"

Otherwise it just peters out at "AI makes a lot of data" - which is true, but not interesting

 ## 2. Analytics needs your full attention

> Unlike conventional apps, the data generated by apps built on generative AI will compound.  Whether or not you grow users significantly, your events are always going to keep growing.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Unlike conventional apps, the data created by generative AI compounds over time even if you aren't growing your userbase significantly.
```

Sentence tweak so we don't say 'generated' and 'generative' so closely, and also clarify meaning. 

I'm not sure why this is different to other apps though? If users disappear in any type of app then the data stops increasing.

> As a founder, it’s true that your primary concern should be the product you’re making. But there are three other systems Diego advises to pay close attention to: your billing logic, infrastructure observability, and analytics.  “You should always think of the analytics repercussions of each one of your product launches. At least the basics.” he insists.

Reviewer 2: Punctuation is a little off here, and the tone is a little stiff. I'd prefer: 

```suggestion
Founders should always focus on improving the their core product, but Diego says you also need to pay close attention to your billing logic, infrastructure observability, and analytics.  

“You should always think of the analytics repercussions of each one of your product launches,” he insists.
```

Even then though, I'm not sure how this connects to the previous sentence or what the depth of value is. Saying founders need to focus on the numbers feels like table stakes stuff. I feel like we instead need to start with this point (given the first sentence doesn't feel like it connects here) and illustrate a learning instead. Then the flow becomes:

1. Analytics are important
2. We learned this by (example story)
3. We remain interested in getting better data even now (LLM observability)

Whereas right now it feels like: 

1. Your data will always increase
2. Analytics and billing and infra are important
3. Analytics is important
4. Analytics is important

Author: Your feedback is making great sense to me. I'm going to re-title and re-write this section, and bring in a story and a tighter point.

 “Besides,” Diego brings up, “independently of what your app does, analytics is the foundation of understanding. It's one of the ways to understand your customer, and as a business owner, that is a core competency. That is industry invariant. AI or not, understanding your customer is a must." 

> > "Contemporary businesses operate at a global and digitally interconnected scale today; this is not something exclusive to Google or "Big Tech" anymore.  Two ears are fine when you need to listen to one person who speaks your language, but what do you do when you have thousands who speak different languages and from different cultures and backgrounds? For me, that's talking and listening to customers over social media in the foreground, while leaving PostHog deal with analytics nightmares running in the background."

Reviewer 2: I like this point, but again the language is a bit jargony (though less of an issue in a quote, IMHO). I don't think we need to highlight this though. I'd probably cut it.

Reviewer: Minor additional point. I was a bit unsure why this was a block quote but the rest of this section isn't? I don't feel strongly about it, but I suspect it can just be another paragraph below without the boxout.

Author: Yes, I don't love this quote either, and would rather see it go.

 ## 3. LLM analytics are the new frontier

> Diego had one last piece of wisdom to impart: pay attention to what’s needed in the realm of LLM analytics. How are you understanding your customer’s interactions with your AI models? Are you able to keep track of the LLMs themselves? What do they perceive? How are they interacting with your business and brand? Where once customer insights were confined to the realm of “how people found your app,” we’ve now got a new frontier of “what happened in the LLM that influenced a customer?” 
> In other words, early-stage products used to spread via word of mouth; today, we will start seeing them spread through word of... next token prediction?
> 
> (PostHog has just launched a new beta product in this category, introducing [LLM observability](/docs/ai-engineering/observability) to let you check in what took place in the deep underground pipes of your in-house agents and AI features.)`

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Diego had one last piece of wisdom to impart: pay attention to what’s needed in the realm of LLM analytics. How are you understanding your customer’s interactions with your AI models? Are you able to keep track of the LLMs themselves? What do they perceive? How are they interacting with your business and brand? Where once customer insights were confined to the realm of “how people found your app,” we’ve now got a new frontier of “what happened in the LLM that influenced a customer?” 

In other words, early-stage products used to spread via word of mouth; today, we will start seeing them spread through word of... next token prediction?

> PostHog has just launched a new beta product in this category, introducing [LLM observability](/docs/ai-engineering/observability) to let you check in what took place in the deep underground pipes of your in-house agents and AI features.
```

This has a few formatting errors that I've fixed in the suggestion above, but feels underbaked on the whole. I feel like we can build this out to tie into the point above. Something like: 

1. Analytics are important and present a unique challenge for AI teams, not just because of the scale of data, but also because you need to track entirely new metrics. 
2. This is even evidenced in PostHog, which has an entirely new tool just for AI teams to track their LLM performance and usage. 
3. This area is rapidly evolving as the underlying technology shifts and founders in this space need to work constantly to maintain their understanding of the data.

Reviewer: FYI, I broke up these paras to make them a bit shorter.

Author: thank you both; your feedback is making this tighter. i'm rewriting this last point as well.

---
title: How Krea analyzes data from its generative AI tool
date: 2025-02-27
author:
  - kevan-gilbert
showTitle: true
rootpage: /blog
sidebar: Blog
hideAnchor: true
featuredImage: >-
  https://res.cloudinary.com/dmukukwp6/image/upload/413293711_2ad62f5e_8fca_44cf_b73a_0848f9537a56_3e39fca48c.jpg
featuredImageType: full
category: Startups
---
The irony of going viral is that everybody wants it, but nobody’s ready for it. 

> There is often such a sudden increase in data usage that servers strain, performance degrades and costs can shoot up for founding teams.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
There is often such a sudden increase in data usage that servers strain, performance degrades, and costs can shoot up for founding teams.
```

Diego Rodriguez, co-founder at Krea, senses that startups often feel they don't need to care about data volume — until it’s too late. 

His advice? If you’re building an AI-first app, then you need to be ready for massive surges of data, regardless of virality. Here’s how founders can prepare with a stronger foundation.

## 1. AI-first apps generate more data than you can imagine

Generative AI apps give you data on an entirely different scale than conventional apps.

“People don't go to a website and spend money a thousand times on a visit. That just doesn't happen. But people do come to Krea and they may make 1,000 images in a single session.”

Diego explains: “Let’s say your product is Canva. How much data is passing through your product? A user creates one artifact: let’s say, a poster. There it is. They’ll create one poster. You don't make many posters per second, or many posters within one minute. You make *A* poster. You work on it, and then you finish and then you save it. But in the world of AI?"

> "For me, the equivalent of an artifact that the user made is not a poster — it’s a frame that you make on the [Krea Realtime](https://www.krea.ai/apps/image/realtime) tool.  But the thing is, within one minute you can make a _lot_ of images, right? Yet, each frame is an artifact of a kind — one moment or “event” in terms of product analytics. The person is making images, but suddenly you are not processing few of them in a few seconds; instead, you are processing many frames per second during, say, 20 minutes. We are not talking about percentage differences anymore—it's in the orders of magnitude.”

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
"For me, the equivalent of an artifact that the user made is not a poster — it’s a frame that you make on the [Krea Realtime](https://www.krea.ai/apps/image/realtime) tool. But the thing is, within one minute you can make a _lot_ of images, right? Yet, each frame is an artifact of a kind — one moment or “event” in terms of product analytics. The person is making images, but suddenly you are not processing few of them in a few seconds; instead, you are processing many frames per second during, say, 20 minutes. We are not talking about percentage differences anymore—it's in the orders of magnitude.”
```

 ## 2. Analytics are your early-detection system

If you're building in AI, it means treating analytics data like a sailor might track the weather. While a founder's focus can be pulled in many directions (between product, team, customer care and beyond), Diego's advice would be: always keep one eye on your analytics.  

It was Krea's viral take-off that drove this home. Diego can still recall the moment he needed to instruct his team to turn off access in the very regions of the world where the app's popularity was surging. 

They hadn't accounted for the prevalence of mobile users in Southeast Asia, using devices for which the app wasn't optimized. "We weren't ready for it," he admits. 

They could see it coming: a rush of users at a Gen AI data scale would mean a ballooning infrastructure bill. But coupled with the degraded performance from non-optimal screens, it would also lead to frustrated users — undercutting the value of the virality in the first place. As the analytics data began to pour in, Diego's team realized they needed to take action. 

> This quick pivot was only possible because Diego had stayed close to the data. “Especially in generative AI," says Diego, "any increase in user activity can greatly impact the whole system. It means paying attention and moving quickly."

Reviewer 2: This is a great story now - really clear, really powerful, great to have a founder talking about a thing like this

Author: 💥 Yesssss. Thank you!
